.TH SQ 1 0.34.0 "Sequoia PGP" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sq autocrypt \- Communicate certificates using Autocrypt
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
\fBsq autocrypt import\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fIFILE\fR
.br
\fBsq autocrypt decode\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fIFILE\fR
.br
\fBsq autocrypt encode\-sender\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fIFILE\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
Communicate certificates using Autocrypt.
.PP
Autocrypt is a standard for mail user agents to provide convenient
end\-to\-end encryption of emails.  This subcommand provides a limited
way to produce and consume headers that are used by Autocrypt to
communicate certificates between clients.
.PP
See <https://autocrypt.org/>.
.PP

.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.SS "sq autocrypt import"
Import Autocrypt\-encoded certificates.
.PP
Given a mail containing autocrypt headers (or an key\-gossip headers),
this command extracts and imports the certificates encoded within it.
.PP


.SS "sq autocrypt decode"
Read Autocrypt\-encoded certificates.
.PP
Given an autocrypt header (or an key\-gossip header), this command
extracts the certificate encoded within it.
.PP
The converse operation is `sq autocrypt encode\-sender`.
.PP


.SS "sq autocrypt encode-sender"
Encode a certificate into an Autocrypt header.
.PP
A certificate can be encoded and included in a header of an email
message.  This command encodes the certificate, adds the senders email
address (which must match the one used in the `From` header), and the
senders `prefer\-encrypt` state (see the Autocrypt spec for more
information).
.PP
The converse operation is `sq autocrypt decode`.
.PP


.SH EXAMPLES
.SS "sq autocrypt import"
.PP

.PP
Imports all certificates from a mail
.PP
.nf
.RS
sq autocrypt import autocrypt.eml
.RE
.fi
.PP
.SS "sq autocrypt decode"
.PP

.PP
Extract all certificates from a mail
.PP
.nf
.RS
sq autocrypt decode autocrypt.eml
.RE
.fi
.PP
.SS "sq autocrypt encode-sender"
.PP

.PP
Encodes a certificate
.PP
.nf
.RS
sq autocrypt encode\-sender juliet.pgp
.RE
.PP
.fi

.PP
Encodes a certificate with an explicit sender address
.PP
.nf
.RS
sq autocrypt encode\-sender \-\-email juliet@example.org juliet.pgp
.RE
.PP
.fi

.PP
Encodes a certificate while indicating the willingness to encrypt
.PP
.nf
.RS
sq autocrypt encode\-sender \-\-prefer\-encrypt mutual juliet.pgp
.RE
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.nh
\fBsq\fR(1), \fBsq\-autocrypt\-import\fR(1), \fBsq\-autocrypt\-decode\fR(1), \fBsq\-autocrypt\-encode\-sender\fR(1).
.hy
.PP
For the full documentation see <https://book.sequoia\-pgp.org>.
.SH VERSION
0.34.0 (sequoia\-openpgp 1.19.0)
