.TH SQ 1 0.34.0 "Sequoia PGP" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sq cert export \- Export certificates from the local certificate store
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
\fBsq cert export\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fIQUERY\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
Export certificates from the local certificate store.
.PP
If multiple predicates are specified a certificate is returned if
at least one of them matches.
.PP
This does not check the authenticity of the certificates in anyway.
Before using the certificates, be sure to validate and authenticate
them.
.PP
When matching on subkeys or User IDs, the component must have a valid
self signature according to the policy.  This is not the case when
matching the certificate's key handle using `\-\-cert` or when exporting
all certificates.
.PP
Fails if search criteria are specified and none of them matches any
certificates.  Note: this means if the certificate store is empty and
no search criteria are specified, then this will return success.
.PP

.SH OPTIONS
.SS "Subcommand options"
.TP
\fB\-B\fR, \fB\-\-binary\fR
Emit binary data
.TP
\fB\-\-all\fR
Export all certificates
.TP
\fB\-\-cert\fR=\fIFINGERPRINT|KEYID\fR
Return certificates that have the specified fingerprint or key ID
.TP
\fB\-\-domain\fR=\fIDOMAIN\fR
Return certificates that have a User ID with an email address from the specified domain
.TP
\fB\-\-email\fR=\fIEMAIL\fR
Return certificates that have a User ID with the specified email address, case insensitively
.TP
\fB\-\-grep\fR=\fIPATTERN\fR
Return certificates that have a User ID that contains the string, case insensitively
.TP
\fB\-\-key\fR=\fIFINGERPRINT|KEYID\fR
Return certificates where the primary key or a subkey has the specified fingerprint or key ID
.TP
\fB\-\-userid\fR=\fIUSERID\fR
Return certificates that have a User ID that matches exactly, including case
.TP
 \fIQUERY\fR
Return certificates matching QUERY. This may be a subkey fingerprint or key ID, an email address, or an User ID fragment.
.SS "Global options"
See \fBsq\fR(1) for a description of the global options.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP

.PP
Export all certificates.
.PP
.nf
.RS
sq cert export \-\-all
.RE
.PP
.fi

.PP
Export certificates with a matching User ID packet.  The binding
signatures are checked, but the User IDs are not authenticated. Note:
this check is case sensitive.
.PP
.nf
.RS
sq cert export \-\-userid "Alice <alice@example.org>"
.RE
.PP
.fi

.PP
Export certificates with a User ID containing the email address. The
binding signatures are checked, but the User IDs are not authenticated.
Note: this check is case insensitive.
.PP
.nf
.RS
sq cert export \-\-email alice@example.org
.RE
.PP
.fi

.PP
Export certificates where the certificate (i.e., the primary key) has
the specified Key ID.
.PP
.nf
.RS
sq cert export \-\-cert 6F0073F60FD0CBF0
.RE
.PP
.fi

.PP
Export certificates where the primary key or a subkey matches the
specified Key ID.
.PP
.nf
.RS
sq cert export \-\-key 24F3955B0B8DECC8
.RE
.PP
.fi

.PP
Export certificates that contain a User ID with *either* (not both!)
email address.  Note: this check is case insensitive.
.PP
.nf
.RS
sq cert export \-\-email alice@example.org \-\-email \\
.RE
.RS
.RS
bob@example.org
.RE
.RE
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.nh
\fBsq\fR(1), \fBsq\-cert\fR(1).
.hy
.PP
For the full documentation see <https://book.sequoia\-pgp.org>.
.SH VERSION
0.34.0 (sequoia\-openpgp 1.19.0)
