.TH SQ 1 0.34.0 "Sequoia PGP" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sq decrypt \- Decrypt a message
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
\fBsq decrypt\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fIFILE\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
Decrypt a message.
.PP
Decrypt a message using either supplied keys, or by prompting for a
password.  If message tampering is detected, an error is returned.
See below for details.
.PP
If certificates are supplied using the `\-\-signer\-cert` option, any
signatures that are found are checked using these certificates.
Verification is only successful if there is no bad signature, and the
number of successfully verified signatures reaches the threshold
configured with the `\-\-signatures` parameter.
.PP
If the signature verification fails, or if message tampering is
detected, the program terminates with an exit status indicating
failure.  In addition to that, the last 25 MiB of the message are
withheld, i.e. if the message is smaller than 25 MiB, no output is
produced, and if it is larger, then the output will be truncated.
.PP
The converse operation is `sq encrypt`.
.PP


.SH OPTIONS
.SS "Subcommand options"
.TP
\fB\-\-dump\-session\-key\fR
Print the session key to stderr
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-signatures\fR=\fIN\fR
Set the threshold of valid signatures to N. The message will only be considered verified if this threshold is reached. [default: 1 if at least one signer cert file is given, 0 otherwise]
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-output\fR=\fIFILE\fR
Write to FILE or stdout if omitted
.TP
\fB\-\-private\-key\-store\fR=\fIKEY_STORE\fR
Provide parameters for private key store
.TP
\fB\-\-recipient\-file\fR=\fIKEY_FILE\fR
Decrypt the message using the key in KEY_FILE
.TP
\fB\-\-session\-key\fR=\fISESSION\-KEY\fR
Decrypt an encrypted message using SESSION\-KEY
.TP
\fB\-\-signer\-file\fR=\fICERT_FILE\fR
Verify signatures using the certificates in CERT_FILE
.TP
 \fIFILE\fR
Read from FILE or stdin if omitted
.SS "Global options"
See \fBsq\fR(1) for a description of the global options.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP

.PP
Decrypt a file using a secret key
.PP
.nf
.RS
sq decrypt \-\-recipient\-file juliet.pgp ciphertext.pgp
.RE
.PP
.fi

.PP
Decrypt a file verifying signatures
.PP
.nf
.RS
sq decrypt \-\-recipient\-file juliet.pgp \-\-signer\-file romeo.pgp \\
.RE
.RS
.RS
ciphertext.pgp
.RE
.RE
.PP
.fi

.PP
Decrypt a file using a password
.PP
.nf
.RS
sq decrypt ciphertext.pgp
.RE
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.nh
\fBsq\fR(1).
.hy
.PP
For the full documentation see <https://book.sequoia\-pgp.org>.
.SH VERSION
0.34.0 (sequoia\-openpgp 1.19.0)
