.TH SQ 1 0.34.0 "Sequoia PGP" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sq key userid strip \- Strip a User ID
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
\fBsq key userid strip\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fIFILE\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
Strip a User ID.
.PP
Note that this operation does not reliably remove User IDs from a
certificate that has already been disseminated! (OpenPGP software
typically appends new information it receives about a certificate
to its local copy of that certificate.  Systems that have obtained
a copy of your certificate with the User ID that you are trying to
strip will not drop that User ID from their copy.)
.PP
In most cases, you will want to use the 'sq key userid revoke' operation
instead.  That issues a revocation for a User ID, which can be used to mark
the User ID as invalidated.
.PP
However, this operation can be useful in very specific cases, in particular:
to remove a mistakenly added User ID before it has been uploaded to key
servers or otherwise shared.
.PP
Stripping a User ID may change how a certificate is interpreted.  This
is because information about the certificate like algorithm preferences,
the primary key's key flags, etc. is stored in the User ID's binding
signature.
.PP


.SH OPTIONS
.SS "Subcommand options"
.TP
\fB\-B\fR, \fB\-\-binary\fR
Emit binary data
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-output\fR=\fIFILE\fR
Write to FILE or stdout if omitted
.TP
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-userid\fR=\fIUSERID\fR
The User IDs to strip.  Values must exactly match a User ID.
.TP
 \fIFILE\fR
Read from FILE or stdin if omitted
.SS "Global options"
See \fBsq\fR(1) for a description of the global options.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP

.PP
First, generate a key:
.PP
.nf
.RS
sq key generate \-\-userid '<juliet@example.org>' \\
.RE
.RS
.RS
\-\-output juliet.key.pgp
.RE
.RE
.PP
.fi

.PP
Then, strip a User ID:
.PP
.nf
.RS
sq key userid strip \-\-userid '<juliet@example.org>' \\
.RE
.RS
.RS
\-\-output juliet\-new.key.pgp juliet.key.pgp
.RE
.RE
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.nh
\fBsq\fR(1), \fBsq\-key\fR(1), \fBsq\-key\-userid\fR(1).
.hy
.PP
For the full documentation see <https://book.sequoia\-pgp.org>.
.SH VERSION
0.34.0 (sequoia\-openpgp 1.19.0)
