.TH SQ 1 0.34.0 "Sequoia PGP" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sq key subkey add \- Add a newly generated Subkey
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
\fBsq key subkey add\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fIFILE\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
Add a newly generated Subkey.
.PP
A subkey has one or more flags. `\-\-can\-sign` sets the signing flag,
and means that the key may be used for signing. `\-\-can\-authenticate`
sets the authentication flags, and means that the key may be used for
authentication (e.g., as an SSH key). These two flags may be combined.
.PP
`\-\-can\-encrypt=storage` sets the storage encryption flag, and means that the key
may be used for storage encryption. `\-\-can\-encrypt=transport` sets the transport
encryption flag, and means that the key may be used for transport encryption.
`\-\-can\-encrypt=universal` sets both the storage and the transport encryption
flag, and means that the key may be used for both storage and transport
encryption. Only one of the encryption flags may be used and it can not be
combined with the signing or authentication flag.
.PP
At least one flag must be chosen.
.PP
When using `\-\-with\-password`, `sq` prompts the user for a password, that is
used to encrypt the subkey.
The password for the subkey may be different from that of the primary key.
.PP
Furthermore the subkey may use one of several available cipher suites, that can
be selected using `\-\-cipher\-suite`.
.PP
By default a new subkey never expires. However, its validity period is limited
by that of the primary key it is added for.
Using the `\-\-expiry` argument specific validity periods may be defined.
It allows for providing a point in time for validity to end or a validity
duration.
.PP
`sq key subkey add` respects the reference time set by the top\-level
`\-\-time` argument. It sets the creation time of the subkey to the specified
time.
.PP


.SH OPTIONS
.SS "Subcommand options"
.TP
\fB\-B\fR, \fB\-\-binary\fR
Emit binary data
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-cipher\-suite\fR=\fICIPHER\-SUITE\fR
Select the cryptographic algorithms for the subkey
.TP
\fB\-\-can\-authenticate\fR
Add authentication capability to subkey
.TP
\fB\-\-can\-encrypt\fR=\fIPURPOSE\fR
Add an encryption capability to subkey. Encryption\-capable subkeys can be marked as suitable for transport encryption, storage encryption, or both, i.e., universal. [default: universal]
.TP
\fB\-\-can\-sign\fR
Add signing capability to subkey
.TP
\fB\-\-expiry\fR=\fIEXPIRY\fR
Define EXPIRY for the subkey as ISO 8601 formatted string or custom duration. If an ISO 8601 formatted string is provided, the validity period reaches from the reference time (may be set using `\-\-time`) to the provided time. Custom durations starting from the reference time may be set using `N[ymwds]`, for N years, months, weeks, days, or seconds. The special keyword `never` sets an unlimited expiry.
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-output\fR=\fIFILE\fR
Write to FILE or stdout if omitted
.TP
\fB\-\-private\-key\-store\fR=\fIKEY_STORE\fR
Provide parameters for private key store
.TP
\fB\-\-with\-password\fR
Protect the subkey with a password
.TP
 \fIFILE\fR
Read from FILE or stdin if omitted
.SS "Global options"
See \fBsq\fR(1) for a description of the global options.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP

.PP
First, generate a key
.PP
.nf
.RS
sq key generate \-\-userid '<juliet@example.org>' \\
.RE
.RS
.RS
\-\-output juliet.key.pgp
.RE
.RE
.PP
.fi

.PP
Add a new Subkey for universal encryption which expires at the same
time as the primary key
.PP
.nf
.RS
sq key subkey add \-\-output juliet\-new.key.pgp \\
.RE
.RS
.RS
\-\-can\-encrypt universal juliet.key.pgp
.RE
.RE
.PP
.fi

.PP
Add a new Subkey for signing using the rsa3k cipher suite which
expires in five days
.PP
.nf
.RS
sq key subkey add \-\-output juliet\-new.key.pgp \-\-can\-sign \\
.RE
.RS
.RS
\-\-expiry 5d \-\-cipher\-suite rsa3k juliet.key.pgp
.RE
.RE
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.nh
\fBsq\fR(1), \fBsq\-key\fR(1), \fBsq\-key\-subkey\fR(1).
.hy
.PP
For the full documentation see <https://book.sequoia\-pgp.org>.
.SH VERSION
0.34.0 (sequoia\-openpgp 1.19.0)
