.TH SQ 1 0.34.0 "Sequoia PGP" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sq key subkey \- Manage Subkeys
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
\fBsq key subkey add\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fIFILE\fR
.br
\fBsq key subkey revoke\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fISUBKEY\fR \fIREASON\fR \fIMESSAGE\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
Manage Subkeys.
.PP
Add new subkeys to an existing key.
.PP

.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.SS "sq key subkey add"
Add a newly generated Subkey.
.PP
A subkey has one or more flags. `\-\-can\-sign` sets the signing flag,
and means that the key may be used for signing. `\-\-can\-authenticate`
sets the authentication flags, and means that the key may be used for
authentication (e.g., as an SSH key). These two flags may be combined.
.PP
`\-\-can\-encrypt=storage` sets the storage encryption flag, and means that the key
may be used for storage encryption. `\-\-can\-encrypt=transport` sets the transport
encryption flag, and means that the key may be used for transport encryption.
`\-\-can\-encrypt=universal` sets both the storage and the transport encryption
flag, and means that the key may be used for both storage and transport
encryption. Only one of the encryption flags may be used and it can not be
combined with the signing or authentication flag.
.PP
At least one flag must be chosen.
.PP
When using `\-\-with\-password`, `sq` prompts the user for a password, that is
used to encrypt the subkey.
The password for the subkey may be different from that of the primary key.
.PP
Furthermore the subkey may use one of several available cipher suites, that can
be selected using `\-\-cipher\-suite`.
.PP
By default a new subkey never expires. However, its validity period is limited
by that of the primary key it is added for.
Using the `\-\-expiry` argument specific validity periods may be defined.
It allows for providing a point in time for validity to end or a validity
duration.
.PP
`sq key subkey add` respects the reference time set by the top\-level
`\-\-time` argument. It sets the creation time of the subkey to the specified
time.
.PP


.SS "sq key subkey revoke"
Revoke a subkey.
.PP
Creates a revocation certificate for a subkey.
.PP
If `\-\-revocation\-file` is provided, then that key is used to create the signature.  If that key is different from the certificate being revoked, this creates a third\-party revocation.  This is normally only useful if the owner of the certificate designated the key to be a designated revoker.
.PP
If `\-\-revocation\-file` is not provided, then the certificate must include a certification\-capable key.
.PP
`sq key subkey revoke` respects the reference time set by the top\-level `\-\-time` argument.  When set, it uses the specified time instead of the current time, when determining what keys are valid, and it sets the revocation certificate's creation time to the reference time instead of the current time.
.PP

.SH EXAMPLES
.SS "sq key subkey add"
.PP

.PP
First, generate a key
.PP
.nf
.RS
sq key generate \-\-userid '<juliet@example.org>' \\
.RE
.RS
.RS
\-\-output juliet.key.pgp
.RE
.RE
.PP
.fi

.PP
Add a new Subkey for universal encryption which expires at the same
time as the primary key
.PP
.nf
.RS
sq key subkey add \-\-output juliet\-new.key.pgp \\
.RE
.RS
.RS
\-\-can\-encrypt universal juliet.key.pgp
.RE
.RE
.PP
.fi

.PP
Add a new Subkey for signing using the rsa3k cipher suite which
expires in five days
.PP
.nf
.RS
sq key subkey add \-\-output juliet\-new.key.pgp \-\-can\-sign \\
.RE
.RS
.RS
\-\-expiry 5d \-\-cipher\-suite rsa3k juliet.key.pgp
.RE
.RE
.fi
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.nh
\fBsq\fR(1), \fBsq\-key\fR(1), \fBsq\-key\-subkey\-add\fR(1), \fBsq\-key\-subkey\-revoke\fR(1).
.hy
.PP
For the full documentation see <https://book.sequoia\-pgp.org>.
.SH VERSION
0.34.0 (sequoia\-openpgp 1.19.0)
