.TH SQ 1 0.34.0 "Sequoia PGP" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sq key userid revoke \- Revoke a User ID
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
\fBsq key userid revoke\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fIUSERID\fR \fIREASON\fR \fIMESSAGE\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
Revoke a User ID.
.PP
Creates a revocation certificate for a User ID.
.PP
If `\-\-revocation\-key` is provided, then that key is used to create the signature.  If that key is different from the certificate being revoked, this creates a third\-party revocation.  This is normally only useful if the owner of the certificate designated the key to be a designated revoker.
.PP
If `\-\-revocation\-key` is not provided, then the certificate must include a certification\-capable key.
.PP
`sq key userid revoke` respects the reference time set by the top\-level `\-\-time` argument.  When set, it uses the specified time instead of the current time, when determining what keys are valid, and it sets the revocation certificate's creation time to the reference time instead of the current time.
.PP

.SH OPTIONS
.SS "Subcommand options"
.TP
\fB\-B\fR, \fB\-\-binary\fR
Emit binary data
.TP
\fB\-\-certificate\-file\fR=\fICERT_FILE\fR
Read the certificate to revoke from CERT_FILE or stdin, if omitted.  It is an error for the file to contain more than one certificate.
.TP
\fB\-\-notation\fR \fINAME\fR \fIVALUE\fR
Add a notation to the certification.  A user\-defined notation's name must be of the form `name@a.domain.you.control.org`. If the notation's name starts with a `!`, then the notation is marked as being critical.  If a consumer of a signature doesn't understand a critical notation, then it will ignore the signature.  The notation is marked as being human readable.
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-output\fR=\fIFILE\fR
Write to FILE or stdout if omitted
.TP
\fB\-\-private\-key\-store\fR=\fIKEY_STORE\fR
Provide parameters for private key store
.TP
\fB\-\-revocation\-file\fR=\fIKEY_FILE\fR
Sign the revocation certificate using the key in KEY_FILE.  If the key is different from the certificate, this creates a third\-party revocation.  If this option is not provided, and the certificate includes secret key material, then that key is used to sign the revocation certificate.
.TP
 \fIUSERID\fR
The User ID to revoke.  By default, this must exactly match a self\-signed User ID.  Use `\-\-force` to generate a revocation certificate for a User ID, which is not self signed.
.TP
 \fIREASON\fR
The reason for the revocation.  This must be either: `retired`, or
`unspecified`:
.IP
  \- `retired` means that this User ID is no longer valid.  This is
    appropriate when someone leaves an organisation, and the
    organisation does not have their secret key material.  For
    instance, if someone was part of Debian and retires, they would
    use this to indicate that a Debian\-specific User ID is no longer
    valid.
.IP
  \- `unspecified` means that a different reason applies.
.IP
If the reason happened in the past, you should specify that using the `\-\-time` argument.  This allows OpenPGP implementations to more
accurately reason about objects whose validity depends on the validity of a User ID.
.TP
 \fIMESSAGE\fR
A short, explanatory text that is shown to a viewer of the revocation certificate.  It explains why the certificate has been revoked.  For instance, if Alice has created a new key, she would generate a `superseded` revocation certificate for her old key, and might include the message `I've created a new certificate, FINGERPRINT, please use
that in the future.`
.SS "Global options"
See \fBsq\fR(1) for a description of the global options.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.nh
\fBsq\fR(1), \fBsq\-key\fR(1), \fBsq\-key\-userid\fR(1).
.hy
.PP
For the full documentation see <https://book.sequoia\-pgp.org>.
.SH VERSION
0.34.0 (sequoia\-openpgp 1.19.0)
