.TH SQ 1 0.34.0 "Sequoia PGP" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sq network keyserver fetch \- Retrieve certificates from key servers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
\fBsq network keyserver fetch\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fIQUERY\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
Retrieve certificates from key servers.
.PP
By default, any returned certificates are stored in the local
certificate store.  This can be overridden by using `\-\-output`
option.
.PP
When a certificate is retrieved from a verifying key server (currently,
this is limited to a list of known servers: `hkps://keys.openpgp.org`,
`hkps://keys.mailvelope.com`, and `hkps://mail\-api.proton.me`), and
imported into the local certificate store, the User IDs are also
certificated with a local server\-specific key.  That proxy certificate
is in turn certified as a minimally trusted CA (trust amount: 1 of
120) by the local trust root.  How much a proxy key server CA is
trusted can be tuned using `sq pki link add` or `sq pki link retract` in
the usual way.
.PP

.SH OPTIONS
.SS "Subcommand options"
.TP
\fB\-B\fR, \fB\-\-binary\fR
Emit binary data
.TP
\fB\-\-all\fR
Fetch updates for all known certificates
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-output\fR=\fIFILE\fR
Write to FILE (or stdout when omitted) instead of importing into the certificate store
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-server\fR=\fIURI\fR
Set the key server to use.  Can be given multiple times.
.TP
 \fIQUERY\fR
Retrieve certificate(s) using QUERY. This may be a fingerprint, a KeyID, or an email address.
.SS "Global options"
See \fBsq\fR(1) for a description of the global options.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.nh
\fBsq\fR(1), \fBsq\-network\fR(1), \fBsq\-network\-keyserver\fR(1).
.hy
.PP
For the full documentation see <https://book.sequoia\-pgp.org>.
.SH VERSION
0.34.0 (sequoia\-openpgp 1.19.0)
