.TH SQ 1 0.34.0 "Sequoia PGP" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sq network keyserver \- Retrieve and publishes certificates via key servers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
\fBsq network keyserver fetch\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fIQUERY\fR
.br
\fBsq network keyserver publish\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fIFILE\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
Retrieve and publishes certificates via key servers.
.PP
The OpenPGP HTTP Keyserver Protocol (HKP) is a method for publishing
and retrieving certificates from key servers.
.PP

.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.SS "sq network keyserver fetch"
Retrieve certificates from key servers.
.PP
By default, any returned certificates are stored in the local
certificate store.  This can be overridden by using `\-\-output`
option.
.PP
When a certificate is retrieved from a verifying key server (currently,
this is limited to a list of known servers: `hkps://keys.openpgp.org`,
`hkps://keys.mailvelope.com`, and `hkps://mail\-api.proton.me`), and
imported into the local certificate store, the User IDs are also
certificated with a local server\-specific key.  That proxy certificate
is in turn certified as a minimally trusted CA (trust amount: 1 of
120) by the local trust root.  How much a proxy key server CA is
trusted can be tuned using `sq pki link add` or `sq pki link retract` in
the usual way.
.PP

.SS "sq network keyserver publish"
Publish certificates on key servers.
.PP
Sends certificates to the configured key servers for publication.  By
default, the certificates are sent to `hkps://keys.openpgp.org`, `hkps://mail\-api.proton.me`, `hkps://keys.mailvelope.com`, `hkps://keyserver.ubuntu.com`, and `hkps://sks.pod01.fleetstreetops.com`.  This can be tweaked using
`\-\-servers`.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.nh
\fBsq\fR(1), \fBsq\-network\fR(1), \fBsq\-network\-keyserver\-fetch\fR(1), \fBsq\-network\-keyserver\-publish\fR(1).
.hy
.PP
For the full documentation see <https://book.sequoia\-pgp.org>.
.SH VERSION
0.34.0 (sequoia\-openpgp 1.19.0)
