.TH SQ 1 0.34.0 "Sequoia PGP" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sq network \- Retrieve and publish certificates over the network
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
\fBsq network fetch\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fIQUERY\fR
.br
\fBsq network keyserver\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]  \fISUBCOMMAND\fR
.br
\fBsq network wkd\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]  \fISUBCOMMAND\fR
.br
\fBsq network dane\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]  \fISUBCOMMAND\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
Retrieve and publish certificates over the network.
.PP
OpenPGP certificates can be discovered and updated from, and published
on services accessible over the network.  This is a collection of
commands to interact with these services.
.PP

.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.SS "sq network fetch"
Retrieve certificates using all supported network services.
.PP
This command will try to locate relevant certificates given a query,
which may be a fingerprint, a key ID, an email address, or a https
URL.  It may also discover and import certificate related to the one
queried, such as alternative certs, expired certs, or revoked certs.
.PP
Discovering related certs is useful: alternative certs support key
rotations, expired certs allow verification of signatures made in the
past, and discovering revoked certs is important to get the revocation
information.  The PKI mechanism will help to select the correct cert,
see `sq pki`.
.PP
By default, any returned certificates are stored in the local
certificate store.  This can be overridden by using `\-\-output`
option.
.PP
When a certificate is retrieved from a verifying key server (currently,
this is limited to a list of known servers: `hkps://keys.openpgp.org`,
`hkps://keys.mailvelope.com`, and `hkps://mail\-api.proton.me`),
WKD, DANE, or via https, and
imported into the local certificate store, the User IDs are also
certificated with a local server\-specific key.  That proxy certificate
is in turn certified as a minimally trusted CA (trust amount: 1 of
120) by the local trust root.  How much a proxy key server CA is
trusted can be tuned using `sq pki link add` or `sq pki link retract` in
the usual way.
.PP

.SS "sq network keyserver"
Retrieve and publishes certificates via key servers.
.PP
The OpenPGP HTTP Keyserver Protocol (HKP) is a method for publishing
and retrieving certificates from key servers.
.PP

.SS "sq network wkd"
Retrieve and publishes certificates via Web Key Directories.
.PP
The Web Key Directory (WKD) is a method for publishing and retrieving
certificates from web servers.
.PP

.SS "sq network dane"
Retrieve and publishes certificates via DANE.
.PP
DNS\-Based Authentication of Named Entities (DANE) is a method for
publishing and retrieving certificates in DNS as specified in RFC
7929.
.PP

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.nh
\fBsq\fR(1), \fBsq\-network\-fetch\fR(1), \fBsq\-network\-keyserver\fR(1), \fBsq\-network\-wkd\fR(1), \fBsq\-network\-dane\fR(1).
.hy
.PP
For the full documentation see <https://book.sequoia\-pgp.org>.
.SH VERSION
0.34.0 (sequoia\-openpgp 1.19.0)
