.TH SQ 1 0.34.0 "Sequoia PGP" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sq network dane generate \- Generate DANE records for the given domain and certs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
\fBsq network dane generate\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fIFQDN\fR \fICERT\-RING\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
Generate DANE records for the given domain and certs.
.PP
The certificates are minimized, and one record per email address is
emitted.  If multiple user IDs map to one email address, then all
matching user IDs are included in the emitted certificates.
.PP
By default, OPENPGPKEY resource records are emitted.  If your DNS
server doesn't understand those, use `\-\-generic` to emit generic
records instead.
.PP

.SH OPTIONS
.SS "Subcommand options"
.TP
\fB\-\-generic\fR
Emit generic resource records [default: OPENPGPKEY records]
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-skip\fR
Skip expired certificates and those that do not have User IDs for given domain.
.TP
\fB\-\-size\-limit\fR=\fIBYTES\fR
Try to shrink the certificates to this size
.TP
\fB\-\-ttl\fR=\fIDURATION\fR
Set the TTL (maximum cache duration) of the resource records
.TP
 \fIFQDN\fR
Generate DANE records for this domain name
.TP
 \fICERT\-RING\fR
Emit records for certificates from CERT\-RING (or stdin if omitted)
.SS "Global options"
See \fBsq\fR(1) for a description of the global options.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP

.PP
Generate DANE records from certs.pgp for example.com.
.PP
.nf
.RS
sq dane generate example.com certs.pgp
.RE
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.nh
\fBsq\fR(1), \fBsq\-network\fR(1), \fBsq\-network\-dane\fR(1).
.hy
.PP
For the full documentation see <https://book.sequoia\-pgp.org>.
.SH VERSION
0.34.0 (sequoia\-openpgp 1.19.0)
