.TH SQ 1 0.34.0 "Sequoia PGP" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sq pki link retract \- Retract links
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
\fBsq pki link retract\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fIFINGERPRINT|KEYID\fR \fIUSERID|EMAIL\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
Retract links.
.PP
This command retracts links that were previously created using `sq
pki link add`.  See that subcommand's documentation for more details.
Note: this is called `retract` and not `remove`, because the
certifications are not removed.  Instead a new certification is added,
which says that the binding has not been authenticated.
.PP
`sq pki link retract` respects the reference time set by the top\-level
`\-\-time` argument.  This causes a link to be retracted as of a
particular time instead of the current time.
.PP

.SH OPTIONS
.SS "Subcommand options"
.TP
\fB\-\-email\fR=\fIemail\fR
An email address to unlink from the certificate.  The email address must match a User ID with the email, although, it need not be linked.
.TP
\fB\-\-notation\fR \fINAME\fR \fIVALUE\fR
Add a notation to the certification.  A user\-defined notation's name must be of the form `name@a.domain.you.control.org`. If the notation's name starts with a !, then the notation is marked as being critical.  If a consumer of a signature doesn't understand a critical notation, then it will ignore the signature.  The notation is marked as being human readable.
.TP
\fB\-\-userid\fR=\fIUSERID\fR
A User ID to unlink from the certificate.  This must match a known User ID, although it need not be linked.
.TP
 \fIFINGERPRINT|KEYID\fR
The certificate whose acceptance is being retracted.
.TP
 \fIUSERID|EMAIL\fR
A User ID or email address to unlink from the certificate.  This must match a known User ID.  Scripts should prefer to use `\-\-email` or `\-\-userid`, as `sq` does not need to guess if a value is a User ID or an email address. If no User IDs, or email addresses are provided, then all known User IDs are unlinked.
.SS "Global options"
See \fBsq\fR(1) for a description of the global options.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.nh
\fBsq\fR(1), \fBsq\-pki\fR(1), \fBsq\-pki\-link\fR(1).
.hy
.PP
For the full documentation see <https://book.sequoia\-pgp.org>.
.SH VERSION
0.34.0 (sequoia\-openpgp 1.19.0)
