.TH SQ 1 0.34.0 "Sequoia PGP" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sq pki identify \- Identify a certificate
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
\fBsq pki identify\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fIFINGERPRINT|KEYID\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
Identify a certificate.
.PP
Identify a certificate by finding authenticated bindings (User ID and certificate pairs).
.PP
If a binding could be authenticated to the specified level (by default: fully authenticated, i.e., a trust amount of 120), then the exit status is 0.  Otherwise the exit status is 1.
.PP
If a binding could be partially authenticated (i.e., its trust amount is greater than 0), then the binding is displayed, even if the trust is below the specified threshold.
.PP

.SH OPTIONS
.SS "Subcommand options"
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-amount\fR=\fIAMOUNT\fR
The required amount of trust.
.IP
120 indicates full authentication; values less than 120 indicate partial authentication.  When `\-\-certification\-network` is passed, this defaults to 1200, i.e., `sq pki` tries to find 10 paths.
.TP
\fB\-\-certification\-network\fR
Treats the network as a certification network.
.IP
Normally, `sq pki` treats the Web of Trust network as an authentication network where a certification only means that the binding is correct, not that the target should be treated as a trusted introducer.  In a certification network, the targets of certifications are treated as trusted introducers with infinite depth, and any regular expressions are ignored. Note: The trust amount remains unchanged.  This is how most so\-called PGP path\-finding algorithms work.
.TP
\fB\-\-gossip\fR
Treats all certificates as unreliable trust roots.
.IP
This option is useful for figuring out what others think about a certificate (i.e., gossip or hearsay).  In other words, this finds arbitrary paths to a particular certificate.
.IP
Gossip is useful in helping to identify alternative ways to authenticate a certificate.  For instance, imagine Ed wants to authenticate Laura's certificate, but asking her directly is inconvenient.  Ed discovers that Micah has certified Laura's certificate, but Ed hasn't yet authenticated Micah's certificate.  If Ed is willing to rely on Micah as a trusted introducer, and authenticating Micah's certificate is easier than authenticating Laura's certificate, then Ed has learned about an easier way to authenticate Laura's certificate.
.TP
 \fIFINGERPRINT|KEYID\fR
The fingerprint or Key ID of the certificate to authenticate
.SS "Global options"
See \fBsq\fR(1) for a description of the global options.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP

.PP
Identify the user IDs that can be authenticated for the certificate.
.PP
.nf
.RS
sq pki identify EB28F26E2739A4870ECC47726F0073F60FD0CBF0
.RE
.PP
.fi

.PP
List all user IDs that have that have been certified by anyone.
.PP
.nf
.RS
sq pki identify \-\-gossip \\
.RE
.RS
.RS
511257EBBF077B7AEDAE5D093F68CB84CE537C9A
.RE
.RE
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.nh
\fBsq\fR(1), \fBsq\-pki\fR(1).
.hy
.PP
For the full documentation see <https://book.sequoia\-pgp.org>.
.SH VERSION
0.34.0 (sequoia\-openpgp 1.19.0)
