.TH SQ 1 0.34.0 "Sequoia PGP" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sq pki list \- List all authenticated bindings (User ID and certificate pairs)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
\fBsq pki list\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fIPATTERN\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
List all authenticated bindings (User ID and certificate pairs).
.PP
Only bindings that meet the specified trust amount (by default bindings that are fully authenticated, i.e., have a trust amount of 120), are shown.
.PP
Even if no bindings are shown, the exit status is 0.
.PP
If `\-\-email` is provided, then a pattern matches if it is a case insensitive substring of the email address as\-is or the normalized email address.  Note: unlike the email address, the pattern is not normalized.  In particular, puny code normalization is not done on the pattern.
.PP

.SH OPTIONS
.SS "Subcommand options"
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-amount\fR=\fIAMOUNT\fR
The required amount of trust.
.IP
120 indicates full authentication; values less than 120 indicate partial authentication.  When `\-\-certification\-network` is passed, this defaults to 1200, i.e., `sq pki` tries to find 10 paths.
.TP
\fB\-\-certification\-network\fR
Treats the network as a certification network.
.IP
Normally, `sq pki` treats the Web of Trust network as an authentication network where a certification only means that the binding is correct, not that the target should be treated as a trusted introducer.  In a certification network, the targets of certifications are treated as trusted introducers with infinite depth, and any regular expressions are ignored. Note: The trust amount remains unchanged.  This is how most so\-called PGP path\-finding algorithms work.
.TP
\fB\-\-email\fR
Changes the USERID parameter to match User IDs with the specified email address.
.IP
Interprets the USERID parameter as an email address, which is then used to select User IDs with that email address.
.IP
Unlike when comparing User IDs, email addresses are first normalized by the domain to ASCII using IDNA2008 Punycode conversion, and then converting the resulting email address to lowercase using the empty locale.
.IP
If multiple User IDs match, they are each considered in turn, and this function returns success if at least one of those User IDs can be authenticated.  Note: The paths to the different User IDs are not combined.
.TP
\fB\-\-gossip\fR
Treats all certificates as unreliable trust roots.
.IP
This option is useful for figuring out what others think about a certificate (i.e., gossip or hearsay).  In other words, this finds arbitrary paths to a particular certificate.
.IP
Gossip is useful in helping to identify alternative ways to authenticate a certificate.  For instance, imagine Ed wants to authenticate Laura's certificate, but asking her directly is inconvenient.  Ed discovers that Micah has certified Laura's certificate, but Ed hasn't yet authenticated Micah's certificate.  If Ed is willing to rely on Micah as a trusted introducer, and authenticating Micah's certificate is easier than authenticating Laura's certificate, then Ed has learned about an easier way to authenticate Laura's certificate.
.TP
 \fIPATTERN\fR
A pattern to select the bindings to authenticate.
.IP
The pattern is treated as a UTF\-8 encoded string and a case insensitive substring search (using the current locale) is performed against each User ID.  If a User ID is not valid UTF\-8, the binding is ignored.
.SS "Global options"
See \fBsq\fR(1) for a description of the global options.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP

.PP
List all bindings for user IDs containing an email address from
example.org, and that can be authenticated.
.PP
.nf
.RS
sq pki list @example.org
.RE
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.nh
\fBsq\fR(1), \fBsq\-pki\fR(1).
.hy
.PP
For the full documentation see <https://book.sequoia\-pgp.org>.
.SH VERSION
0.34.0 (sequoia\-openpgp 1.19.0)
