.TH SQ 1 0.34.0 "Sequoia PGP" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sq pki certify \- Certify a User ID for a Certificate
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
\fBsq pki certify\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fICERTIFIER\-KEY\fR \fIKEY_ID|FINGERPRINT|FILE\fR \fIUSERID\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
Certify a User ID for a Certificate.
.PP
Using a certification a keyholder may vouch for the fact that another
certificate legitimately belongs to a user id.  In the context of
emails this means that the same entity controls the key and the email
address.  These kind of certifications form the basis for the Web of
Trust.
.PP
This command emits the certificate with the new certification.  The
updated certificate has to be distributed, preferably by sending it to
the certificate holder for attestation.  See also `sq key
attest\-certifications`.
.PP
By default a certification expires after 5 years.
Using the `\-\-expiry` argument specific validity periods may be defined.
It allows for providing a point in time for validity to end or a validity
duration.
.PP
`sq pki certify` respects the reference time set by the top\-level
`\-\-time` argument.  It sets the certification's creation time to the
reference time.
.PP


.SH OPTIONS
.SS "Subcommand options"
.TP
\fB\-B\fR, \fB\-\-binary\fR
Emit binary data
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-amount\fR=\fIAMOUNT\fR
Set the amount of trust.  Values between 1 and 120 are meaningful. 120 means fully trusted.  Values less than 120 indicate the degree of trust.  60 is usually used for partially trusted.
.TP
\fB\-\-add\-userid\fR
Add the given user ID if it doesn't exist in the certificate.
.TP
\fB\-\-allow\-not\-alive\-certifier\fR
Allow the key to make a certification even if the current time is prior to its creation time or the current time is at or after its expiration time.
.TP
\fB\-\-allow\-revoked\-certifier\fR
Don't fail if the certificate making the certification is revoked.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-depth\fR=\fITRUST_DEPTH\fR
Set the trust depth (sometimes referred to as the trust level).  0 means a normal certification of <CERTIFICATE, USERID>.  1 means CERTIFICATE is also a trusted introducer, 2 means CERTIFICATE is a meta\-trusted introducer, etc.
.TP
\fB\-\-email\fR
Treat the given user ID as an email address.  If more than one user ID contain the given email address, all are certified.
.TP
\fB\-\-expiry\fR=\fIEXPIRY\fR
Define EXPIRY for the certification as ISO 8601 formatted string or custom duration. If an ISO 8601 formatted string is provided, the validity period reaches from the reference time (may be set using `\-\-time`) to the provided time. Custom durations starting from the reference time may be set using `N[ymwds]`, for N years, months, weeks, days, or seconds. The special keyword `never` sets an unlimited expiry.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-local\fR
Make the certification a local certification.  Normally, local certifications are not exported.
.TP
\fB\-\-non\-revocable\fR
Mark the certification as being non\-revocable. That is, you cannot later revoke this certification.  This should normally only be used with an expiration.
.TP
\fB\-\-notation\fR \fINAME\fR \fIVALUE\fR
Add a notation to the certification.  A user\-defined notation's name must be of the form `name@a.domain.you.control.org`. If the notation's name starts with a !, then the notation is marked as being critical.  If a consumer of a signature doesn't understand a critical notation, then it will ignore the signature.  The notation is marked as being human readable.
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-output\fR=\fIFILE\fR
Write to FILE or stdout if omitted
.TP
\fB\-\-private\-key\-store\fR=\fIKEY_STORE\fR
Provide parameters for private key store
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-regex\fR=\fIREGEX\fR
Add a regular expression to constrain what a trusted introducer can certify.  The regular expression must match the certified User ID in all intermediate introducers, and the certified certificate. Multiple regular expressions may be specified.  In that case, at least one must match.
.TP
 \fICERTIFIER\-KEY\fR
Create the certification using CERTIFIER\-KEY.
.TP
 \fIKEY_ID|FINGERPRINT|FILE\fR
Certify CERTIFICATE.
.TP
 \fIUSERID\fR
Certify USERID for CERTIFICATE.
.SS "Global options"
See \fBsq\fR(1) for a description of the global options.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP

.PP
Juliet certifies that Romeo controls romeo.pgp and romeo@example.org
.PP
.nf
.RS
sq pki certify juliet.pgp romeo.pgp '<romeo@example.org>'
.RE
.PP
.fi

.PP
Certify the User ID Ada, and set the certification time to July
21, 2013 at midnight UTC:
.PP
.nf
.RS
sq pki certify \-\-time 20130721 neal.pgp ada.pgp Ada
.RE
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.nh
\fBsq\fR(1), \fBsq\-pki\fR(1).
.hy
.PP
For the full documentation see <https://book.sequoia\-pgp.org>.
.SH VERSION
0.34.0 (sequoia\-openpgp 1.19.0)
