.TH SQ 1 0.34.0 "Sequoia PGP" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sq pki path \- Verify the specified path
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
\fBsq pki path\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fIFINGERPRINT|KEYID\fR \fIUSERID\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
Verify the specified path.
.PP
A path is a sequence of certificates starting at the root, and a User ID.  This function checks that each path segment has a valid certification, which also satisfies any constraints (trust amount, trust depth, regular expressions).
.PP
If a valid path is not found, then this subcommand also lints the path.  In particular, it report if any certifications are insufficient, e.g., not enough trust depth, or invalid, e.g., because they use SHA\-1, but the use of SHA\-1 has been disabled.
.PP

.SH OPTIONS
.SS "Subcommand options"
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-amount\fR=\fIAMOUNT\fR
The required amount of trust.
.IP
120 indicates full authentication; values less than 120 indicate partial authentication.  When `\-\-certification\-network` is passed, this defaults to 1200, i.e., `sq pki` tries to find 10 paths.
.TP
\fB\-\-certification\-network\fR
Treats the network as a certification network.
.IP
Normally, `sq pki` treats the Web of Trust network as an authentication network where a certification only means that the binding is correct, not that the target should be treated as a trusted introducer.  In a certification network, the targets of certifications are treated as trusted introducers with infinite depth, and any regular expressions are ignored. Note: The trust amount remains unchanged.  This is how most so\-called PGP path\-finding algorithms work.
.TP
\fB\-\-gossip\fR
Treats all certificates as unreliable trust roots.
.IP
This option is useful for figuring out what others think about a certificate (i.e., gossip or hearsay).  In other words, this finds arbitrary paths to a particular certificate.
.IP
Gossip is useful in helping to identify alternative ways to authenticate a certificate.  For instance, imagine Ed wants to authenticate Laura's certificate, but asking her directly is inconvenient.  Ed discovers that Micah has certified Laura's certificate, but Ed hasn't yet authenticated Micah's certificate.  If Ed is willing to rely on Micah as a trusted introducer, and authenticating Micah's certificate is easier than authenticating Laura's certificate, then Ed has learned about an easier way to authenticate Laura's certificate.
.TP
 \fIFINGERPRINT|KEYID\fR \fIUSERID\fR
A path consists of one or more certificates (designated by their fingerprint or Key ID) and ending in the User ID that is being authenticated
.SS "Global options"
See \fBsq\fR(1) for a description of the global options.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP

.PP
Verify that Alice ceritified a particular User ID for Bob's certificate.
.PP
.nf
.RS
sq pki path EB28F26E2739A4870ECC47726F0073F60FD0CBF0 \\
.RE
.RS
.RS
511257EBBF077B7AEDAE5D093F68CB84CE537C9A \\
.RE
.RE
.RS
.RS
"Bob <bob@example.org>"
.RE
.RE
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.nh
\fBsq\fR(1), \fBsq\-pki\fR(1).
.hy
.PP
For the full documentation see <https://book.sequoia\-pgp.org>.
.SH VERSION
0.34.0 (sequoia\-openpgp 1.19.0)
