.TH SQ 1 0.34.0 "Sequoia PGP" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sq toolbox \- Tools for developers, maintainers, and forensic specialists
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
\fBsq toolbox keyring\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]  \fISUBCOMMAND\fR
.br
\fBsq toolbox extract\-cert\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fIFILE\fR
.br
\fBsq toolbox packet\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]  \fISUBCOMMAND\fR
.br
\fBsq toolbox armor\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fIFILE\fR
.br
\fBsq toolbox dearmor\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fIFILE\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
Tools for developers, maintainers, and forensic specialists.
.PP
This is a collection of low\-level tools to inspect and manipulate
OpenPGP data structures.
.PP

.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.SS "sq toolbox keyring"
Manage collections of keys or certs.
.PP
Collections of keys or certificates (also known as "keyrings" when
they contain secret key material, and "certrings" when they don't) are
any number of concatenated certificates.  This subcommand provides
tools to list, split, merge, and filter keyrings.
.PP
Note: In the documentation of this subcommand, we sometimes use the
terms keys and certs interchangeably.
.PP

.SS "sq toolbox extract-cert"
Convert a key to a cert.
.PP
After generating a key, use this command to get the certificate
corresponding to the key.  The key must be kept secure, while the
certificate should be handed out to correspondents, e.g. by uploading
it to a key server.
.PP


.SS "sq toolbox packet"
Low\-level packet manipulation.
.PP
An OpenPGP data stream consists of packets.  These tools allow working
with packet streams.  They are mostly of interest to developers, but
`sq toolbox packet dump` may be helpful to a wider audience both to provide
valuable information in bug reports to OpenPGP\-related software, and
as a learning tool.
.PP

.SS "sq toolbox armor"
Convert binary to ASCII.
.PP
To make encrypted data easier to handle and transport, OpenPGP data
can be transformed to an ASCII representation called ASCII Armor.  sq
emits armored data by default, but this subcommand can be used to
convert existing OpenPGP data to its ASCII\-encoded representation.
.PP
The converse operation is `sq toolbox dearmor`.
.PP


.SS "sq toolbox dearmor"
Convert ASCII to binary.
.PP
To make encrypted data easier to handle and transport, OpenPGP data
can be transformed to an ASCII representation called ASCII Armor.  sq
transparently handles armored data, but this subcommand can be used to
explicitly convert existing ASCII\-encoded OpenPGP data to its binary
representation.
.PP
The converse operation is `sq toolbox armor`.
.PP


.SH EXAMPLES
.SS "sq toolbox extract-cert"
.PP

.PP
First, generate a key
.PP
.nf
.RS
sq key generate \-\-userid '<juliet@example.org>' \\
.RE
.RS
.RS
\-\-output juliet.key.pgp
.RE
.RE
.PP
.fi

.PP
Then, extract the certificate for distribution
.PP
.nf
.RS
sq toolbox extract\-cert \-\-output juliet.cert.pgp juliet.key.pgp
.RE
.fi
.PP
.SS "sq toolbox armor"
.PP

.PP
Convert a binary certificate to ASCII
.PP
.nf
.RS
sq toolbox armor binary\-juliet.pgp
.RE
.PP
.fi

.PP
Convert a binary message to ASCII
.PP
.nf
.RS
sq toolbox armor binary\-message.pgp
.RE
.fi
.PP
.SS "sq toolbox dearmor"
.PP

.PP
Convert a ASCII certificate to binary
.PP
.nf
.RS
sq toolbox dearmor ascii\-juliet.pgp
.RE
.PP
.fi

.PP
Convert a ASCII message to binary
.PP
.nf
.RS
sq toolbox dearmor ascii\-message.pgp
.RE
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.nh
\fBsq\fR(1), \fBsq\-toolbox\-keyring\fR(1), \fBsq\-toolbox\-extract\-cert\fR(1), \fBsq\-toolbox\-packet\fR(1), \fBsq\-toolbox\-armor\fR(1), \fBsq\-toolbox\-dearmor\fR(1).
.hy
.PP
For the full documentation see <https://book.sequoia\-pgp.org>.
.SH VERSION
0.34.0 (sequoia\-openpgp 1.19.0)
