.TH SQ 1 0.34.0 "Sequoia PGP" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sq toolbox packet \- Low\-level packet manipulation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
\fBsq toolbox packet dump\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fIFILE\fR
.br
\fBsq toolbox packet decrypt\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fIFILE\fR
.br
\fBsq toolbox packet split\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fIFILE\fR
.br
\fBsq toolbox packet join\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fIFILE\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
Low\-level packet manipulation.
.PP
An OpenPGP data stream consists of packets.  These tools allow working
with packet streams.  They are mostly of interest to developers, but
`sq toolbox packet dump` may be helpful to a wider audience both to provide
valuable information in bug reports to OpenPGP\-related software, and
as a learning tool.
.PP

.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.SS "sq toolbox packet dump"
List packets.
.PP
Creates a human\-readable description of the packet sequence.
Additionally, it can print cryptographic artifacts, and print the raw
octet stream similar to hexdump(1), annotating specifically which
bytes are parsed into OpenPGP values.
.PP
To inspect encrypted messages, either supply the session key, or see
`sq decrypt` with the `\-\-dump` flag, or `sq toolbox packet decrypt`.
.PP


.SS "sq toolbox packet decrypt"
Unwrap an encryption container.
.PP
Decrypts a message, dumping the content of the encryption container
without further processing.  The result is a valid OpenPGP message
that can, among other things, be inspected using `sq toolbox packet dump`.
.PP


.SS "sq toolbox packet split"
Split a message into packets.
.PP
Splitting a packet sequence into individual packets, then recombining
them freely with `sq toolbox packet join` is a great way to experiment with
OpenPGP data.
.PP
The converse operation is `sq toolbox packet join`.
.PP


.SS "sq toolbox packet join"
Join packets split across files.
.PP
Splitting a packet sequence into individual packets, then recombining
them freely with `sq toolbox packet join` is a great way to experiment with
OpenPGP data.
.PP
The converse operation is `sq toolbox packet split`.
.PP


.SH EXAMPLES
.SS "sq toolbox packet dump"
.PP

.PP
Prints the packets of a certificate
.PP
.nf
.RS
sq toolbox packet dump juliet.pgp
.RE
.PP
.fi

.PP
Prints cryptographic artifacts of a certificate
.PP
.nf
.RS
sq toolbox packet dump \-\-mpis juliet.pgp
.RE
.PP
.fi

.PP
Prints a hexdump of a certificate
.PP
.nf
.RS
sq toolbox packet dump \-\-hex juliet.pgp
.RE
.PP
.fi

.PP
Prints the packets of an encrypted message
.PP
.nf
.RS
sq toolbox packet dump \-\-session\-key AABBCC... ciphertext.pgp
.RE
.fi
.PP
.SS "sq toolbox packet decrypt"
.PP

.PP
Unwraps the encryption revealing the signed message
.PP
.nf
.RS
sq toolbox packet decrypt \-\-recipient\-file juliet.pgp \\
.RE
.RS
.RS
ciphertext.pgp
.RE
.RE
.fi
.PP
.SS "sq toolbox packet split"
.PP

.PP
Split a certificate into individual packets
.PP
.nf
.RS
sq toolbox packet split juliet.pgp
.RE
.fi
.PP
.SS "sq toolbox packet join"
.PP

.PP
Split a certificate into individual packets
.PP
.nf
.RS
sq toolbox packet split juliet.pgp
.RE
.PP
.fi

.PP
Then join only a subset of these packets
.PP
.nf
.RS
sq toolbox packet join juliet.pgp\-[0\-3]*
.RE
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.nh
\fBsq\fR(1), \fBsq\-toolbox\fR(1), \fBsq\-toolbox\-packet\-dump\fR(1), \fBsq\-toolbox\-packet\-decrypt\fR(1), \fBsq\-toolbox\-packet\-split\fR(1), \fBsq\-toolbox\-packet\-join\fR(1).
.hy
.PP
For the full documentation see <https://book.sequoia\-pgp.org>.
.SH VERSION
0.34.0 (sequoia\-openpgp 1.19.0)
