.TH SQ 1 0.34.0 "Sequoia PGP" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sq verify \- Verify signed messages or detached signatures
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
\fBsq verify\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fIFILE\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
Verify signed messages or detached signatures.
.PP
When verifying signed messages, the message is written to stdout or
the file given to `\-\-output`.
.PP
When a detached message is verified, no output is produced.  Detached
signatures are often used to sign software packages.
.PP
Verification is only successful if there is no bad signature, and the
number of successfully verified signatures reaches the threshold
configured with the `\-\-signatures` parameter.  If the verification
fails, the program terminates with an exit status indicating failure.
In addition to that, the last 25 MiB of the message are withheld,
i.e. if the message is smaller than 25 MiB, no output is produced, and
if it is larger, then the output will be truncated.
.PP
A signature is considered to have been authenticated if the signer can
be authenticated.  If the signer is provided via `\-\-signer\-file`,
then the signer is considered authenticated.  Otherwise, the signer is
looked up and authenticated using the Web of Trust.  If at least one
User ID can be fully authenticated, then the signature is considered
to have been authenticated.  If the signature includes a Signer User
ID subpacket, then only that User ID is considered.  Note: the User ID
need not be self signed.
.PP
The converse operation is `sq sign`.
.PP
If you are looking for a standalone program to verify detached
signatures, consider using sequoia\-sqv.
.PP
`sq verify` respects the reference time set by the top\-level
`\-\-time` argument.  When set, it verifies the message as of the
reference time instead of the current time.
.PP


.SH OPTIONS
.SS "Subcommand options"
.TP
\fB\-\-detached\fR=\fISIG\fR
Verify a detached signature
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-signatures\fR=\fIN\fR
Set the threshold of valid signatures to N. If this threshold is not reached, the message will not be considered verified.
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-output\fR=\fIFILE\fR
Write to FILE or stdout if omitted
.TP
\fB\-\-signer\-cert\fR=\fIFINGERPRINT|KEYID\fR
Verify signatures using the specified certificate.  This reads the
certificate from the certificate store, and considers it to be
authenticated.  When this option is not provided, the certificate is
still read from the certificate store, if it exists, but it is not
considered authenticated.
.TP
\fB\-\-signer\-file\fR=\fICERT_FILE\fR
Verify signatures using the certificate in CERT_FILE
.TP
 \fIFILE\fR
Read from FILE or stdin if omitted
.SS "Global options"
See \fBsq\fR(1) for a description of the global options.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP

.PP
Verify a signed message
.PP
.nf
.RS
sq verify signed\-message.pgp
.RE
.PP
.fi

.PP
Verify a detached message
.PP
.nf
.RS
sq verify \-\-detached message.sig message.txt
.RE
.PP
.fi

.PP
Verify a message as of June 9, 2011 at midnight UTC:
.PP
.nf
.RS
sq verify \-\-time 20130721 msg.pgp
.RE
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.nh
\fBsq\fR(1).
.hy
.PP
For the full documentation see <https://book.sequoia\-pgp.org>.
.SH VERSION
0.34.0 (sequoia\-openpgp 1.19.0)
